limitations and recommending tightening
up the window that you eat in that is a
real window whereas the anabolic window
is not a real thing
all of these people did like p90x or
some other program where they believed
that you exercise and then eat something
right after you exercise it like becomes
muscle and so we're going to talk about
that today and I'm gonna answer some
questions that are more specific towards
this and we can we can kind of go go
outside of the scope of that afterward
but I really want to stay focused on
meal timing is definitely a theme of
what we have in the in the x3
programming for nutrition also keep in
mind the reason I designed that program
the way I did was to keep it really user
friendly like 90 percent of the people
who look at that they go ok I can
probably take sugar out of my diet or
okay I can I can stop drinking coca-cola
like I don't it's not gonna kill me they
like now I've got coal anymore so so
there's different levels of aggression
when it comes to choosing your nutrition
program so for example and when it comes
to mealtime which is just what we're
talking about today you can have one
meal a day and get all your nutrition
rammed into that one meal that's kind of
hard you're you're eating a lot very
short period of time so especially if
you're trying to gain muscle so when you
when you do that sort of thing that
makes for a rough 24 hour period
especially if you're not ketogenic or
not
that's a miserable day if you go 24
hours with no food now you are founded
up and it's pretty easy day so but you
know again these are different levels of
aggression and I will be doing more in
the next probably four to six months on
nutrition because I realized there is so
much crap information out there and I
hesitate to even call it nutritional
advice because that that denotes some
stuff you know some implication about
health
however science can you really decide
and like eating meat will kill you or if
it will make you like you know super
fantastic and live for longer or if it
doesn't matter so there is absolutely
conflicting evidence so almost I almost
say he said say to somebody when you say
well let me tell you about my health
observations on nutrition I go I'm gonna
stop you right there
because health and nutrition like you
can't really give a health
recommendation based on a lot of the
nutrition information that's out there
because there's so much conflicting
there's so much bias and there are
companies that make products out of
processed usually simple carbohydrates
and they're they're hell-bent on proving
that those things are healthy now that's
where most of the nutrition research
funding comes from so you got to keep
all that stuff now that doesn't mean
topic which is the anabolic window you
will walk into just about any gym aside
from you know the smell of the sweat you
will probably know it it's the second
thing you notice so the smell is the
fact that there's a lot of guys walking
around looking like they're holding like
a baby bottle
top of it and it's like some sort of
mixing Cup for some sort of protein
drink because they gotta get their
nutrition right in that anabolic window
and what's so funny about that is since
couple shap side and that published a
literature review may have looked at 85
different studies nutrient timing 85
there to remind myself to mention there
were 85 different studies considered in
this is there a post exercise anabolic
window and these are two two guys two
PhDs Alan Aragon and Brad choko medicine
annual congress so there they they
considered all of these different papers
and they looked at different papers who
looked at having a high carbohydrate you
know after your workout versus no meal
after your workout a high-protein meal
after your workout really refined sports
nutrition drinks right after your
workout they comparing them to control
groups who basically just said the same
kind of nutrition it always have or even
fasted and then ate towards the end of
the day so guess what happened nothing
everybody pretty much grew the same
amount of muscle no matter what they did
because now what they didn't they don't
really have a lot of being on it's
muscle gains with multi-day fasting and
I think the reason there's not
literature on that is
because people are typically doing
multi-day fasting are either going after
cancer or they're going after really
really aggressive body fat loss so those
are kind of conflicting goals it's not
like somebody who's morbidly obese is
like well I don't want to lose my
pectoral mass no they need to lose like
a lot of fatness because you know it's
contributing to their short life
potentially so just not a lot of data on
that though there are a couple
indicators that that show that you can
definitely protect muscle with proper
engagement and we've talked about
through your stabilization firing and
loading of the body so you can go
multi-day fast without losing any mass
at all but you can also doesn't matter
and you have your next meal after your
workout so if you want to do doing
exercise in the morning and then you're
doing the one meal a day thing and then
your one meal is it like eight o'clock
at night you're gonna grow you're doing
most of your growth where you're
sleeping anyway so as long as you keep
engaging the muscle even if it's lightly
it's like your body's really not in the
phase that protein synthesis is going
hard and for the most part the protein
synthesis that needs to be going during
the day is happening and of course ATP
plugging engine and creatine phosphate
get replaced on a need basis almost no
matter what's there even if you are if
you if you have zero calories available
to metabolize that's when you
immediately go into a ketogenic state
and you start using ketones and
gluconeogenesis to produce the glucose
is required the glucose in this only
common combination was then
the muscle cell and become those fuels
that need to be replaced so it's gonna
happen no matter what and if you saw
that that means you're losing body fat
while that's going on and you're really
fueling the muscle no problem anything
where you say like oh I'm hypoglycemic
or my hands get shaky or I don't feel
good like skip those meals and which I
think I need nutrition it's because your
insulin sensitivity is awful and you're
just totally sugar adapted and you know
that's that's not going to help you
going long-term another thing which I do
know will be one of the first questions
that that we get so I'll just head that
off right now is so does that mean I
need to be fat adapted no but if you
really want to focus someone rapid fat
loss that just means your only option
they're not that adapted in his cohort
restriction so just he's you know
smaller meals maybe throughout the day I
think that's a tough over to go it works
like carbohydrates like I a we're
starting to simplify things like
carbohydrates make you fat and instead
of calories calories Omega
well that's also too simple both both a
little bit too simple insulin is one of
the most should be afraid of insulin
it's all the most powerful hormones in
the body however it's only powerful when
you have a very tiny amount of it and
you have a lot of it what was powerful
it becomes
basically toxic so that's just something
to keep in mind another thing another
one of my rants is which
I was like there's no such thing as a
bad hormone cortisol exists for a reason
it's long exist for a reason and they're
powerful if you trigger them in the
proper way